One interview with Mrs. Eris Williams of Edmonton.
You were asking about the Welsh language.
Now, this is very interesting, Glenys, because it goes back to the very beginning of what
I said about the Welsh church here.
This has been a very integral part of the keeping of the Welsh culture of the language,
particularly possibly for my sister's generation and mine.
It was completely Welsh service, of course, and they carried out the format of the service
as much as they do in the Welsh chapels in Wales.
And we simply had to go in front during the service, as many of the children did, to recite
Welsh verses or verses of hymns, biblical verses I was referring to first of all.
And that, I think, is where we got our real grounding of the pronunciation and, well,
the understanding of it.
And all my parents were as Welsh as anyone who ever came out of Wales.
My father was Mr. T. Morris Hughes from Molde in Flintshire, and our mother was from Rhytham.
And they spoke every word of Welsh in the house, but somehow didn't carry on the conversation
with Stella and myself.
We often mentioned it to them in later years.
Mama used to say, well, you had your grounding in the Welsh verses and the way you memorized.
It's really rather difficult to understand why they didn't keep it up.
We understand practically every word.
And then, of course, I was very fortunate to marry Len, who is from Anglesey, from Llanfodrog,
Anglesey, and to this day, I tease him that he thinks in Welsh and speaks in English.
And though we don't converse, he has never lost his Welsh.
As a matter of fact, 16 years ago, we went back to Wales and he spoke as fluent Welsh
as he did.
At that time, he'd been out here 35 years and simply thrilled everybody.
So of course, he kept my Welsh up.
I used to do a little bit of singing, and of course, he did too.
And our son, Glyn, learned his Welsh hymn, which he sang as guest soloist in San Francisco,
National Gmanba there, through coaching by his father, Glyn, of course.
So we have been very fortunate in being able to keep the... to a certain extent, the understanding.
But I'm not very fluent in the actual conversational French, Welsh.
Would you like to say just a few words in Welsh to finish?
Well, I rather stun my listeners occasionally.
As a matter of fact, not too long ago, I was describing Anglesey and mentioning about
the littlest town there with the largest name in Llanfair, Pwll Gwengill, Gogaerwch, Hwyrindrobwll,
Llandysillioogogoch.
And I often played the record of the Pro's Male Voice Choir.
And I'm always tempted, which I practically always do, tell them that it's all right to
say they're from Roos, but for those who know better, they come from Roos, Llanrhygog.
And believe it or not, I found that really more of a problem than Llanfair P.G.
But oh, I don't know.
I think possibly I'll carry on this program.
It is unique.
As far as I know, I don't think there is another Welsh program in North America.
I've never heard of any in the States.
And I'm quite sure there isn't another one in Canada.
If there is, I would most certainly like to hear of it.
But CKUA is rather a unique station.
It is non-commercial and just is centered around ethnic groups and has been a great
help to the Welsh community of Edmonton.